# Lab 1


### Q1. Prior Distributions (4 pts)

Summarize a prior distribution in a way that someone with a minimal
statistical background, such as a parent or sibling, could understand.

Note that while you are taking a statistics class, writing, and
speaking, will be essential to how we convey our results. Please use
proper grammar, sentence structure, and complete paragraphs.

### Q2. Beta Distribution

#### a. (2 pts)

Write out probability distribution for a beta distribution. Hint, you
can use LaTex…

#### b. (4 pts)

Using `ggplot2` and `rbeta()` or `dbeta()` investigate the impact of
$\alpha$ and $\beta$ on the shape of the resultant probability
distribution function. In particular, create or overlay at least 4
different curves that correspond to alternative specifications of
$\alpha$ and $\beta$.

#### c. (4 pts)

Building on Q2b, summarize how $\alpha/ (\alpha + \beta)$ and
$\alpha + \beta$ change the shape of the probability distribution.

### Q3. Winter Temperature

On Tuesday we considered waiting time for the sunnyside lift on Saturday
mornings at Bridger Bowl. Suppose you found the wait times to be too
long for your liking. Now let’s consider estimating the temperature at
Hyalite Canyon (at the reservoir) at 10 AM on Saturdays in February.

We will outline the first three steps of a Bayesian inference:

#### a. (4 pts) Identify the data relevant to the research question.

Specifically, describe how you design a data collection process to
answer the research question (What are the range of expected
temperatures at Hyalite Reservoir on Saturdays in February?).

#### b. (4 pts) Identify a descriptive statistical model for the relevant data. Then interpret the statistical parameters in that model.

#### c. (4 pts) Specify a prior distribution for all parameters in the model.

Plot your distribution using ggplot2 and state the parameters in that
model. Note you may have multiple parameters that require prior
distributions.

### Q4. Optional (ungraded)

This class will have one project that spans the entire course. Recall
you are allowed to work in groups of up to size 2 for this project. If
you have any remaining course time, give some thought to identifying a
dataset that is interesting to you along with an associated research
question.

The project will be scaffolded over the course of the semester and all
necessary statistical tools (such as regression) will be taught in this
class.
